LTFS receives a lot of requests for its various finance offerings that include housing loan, two-wheeler loan, real estate financing and micro loans. The number of applications received is something that varies a lot with season. Going through these applications is a manual process and is tedious. Accurately forecasting the number of cases received can help with resource and manpower management resulting into quick response on applications and more efficient processing.

You have been appointed with the task of forecasting daily cases for next 3 months for 2 different business segments at the country level keeping in consideration the following major Indian festivals (inclusive but not exhaustive list): Diwali, Dussehra, Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri, Holi etc. (You are free to use any publicly available open source external datasets). Some other examples could be:

Weather
Macroeconomic variables
 Note that the external dataset must belong to a reliable source.


Data Dictionary
The train data has been provided in the following way:

For business segment 1, historical data has been made available at branch ID level
For business segment 2, historical data has been made available at State level.
 

Train File
Variable	Definition
application_date	Date of application
segment	Business Segment (1/2)
branch_id	Anonymised id for branch at which application was received
state	State in which application was received (Karnataka, MP etc.)
zone	Zone of state in which application was received (Central, East etc.)
case_count	(Target) Number of cases/applications received
 

Test File
Forecasting needs to be done at country level for the dates provided in test set for each segment.

Variable	Definition
id	Unique id for each sample in test set
application_date	Date of application
segment	Business Segment (1/2)
 
Sample Submission
This file contains the exact submission format for the forecasts. Please submit csv file only.

Variable	Definition
id	Unique id for each sample in test set
application_date	Date of application
segment	Business Segment (1/2)
case_count	(Target) Predicted values for test set
 
Note that you can only make 5 submissions per day


How to Make a Submission?


 

Evaluation
Evaluation Metric
The evaluation metric for scoring the forecasts is MAPE (Mean Absolute Percentage Error) M with the formula:

 




Where At is the actual value and Ft is the forecast value.


The Final score is calculated using MAPE for both the segments using the formula:



Important Notes

Note that feasibility of implementation of top solutions will be considered while adjudging winners
The solution must produce satisfactory results for both the business segments
 

Public and Private Split
Test data is further divided into Public (1st Month) and Private (Next 2 months)

Your initial responses will be checked and scored on the Public data.
The final rankings would be based on your private score which will be published once the competition is over.
 

Guidelines for Final Submission
Please ensure that your final submission includes the following:

Solution file containing the predicted case count in the test dataset (format is given in sample submission csv)
Code file containing the following:
Code: Note that it is mandatory to submit your code for a valid final submission
External Datasets: Include any external dataset that you have used as an input variable
Approach: Please share your approach to solve the problem (doc/ppt/pdf format). It should cover the following topics:
A brief on the approach, which you have used to solve the problem. Mention the steps used for each segment separately.
What data-preprocessing / feature engineering ideas really worked? How did you discover them?
What does your final model look like? How did you reach it?
 

How to Set Final Submission?


Hackathon Rules
The final standings would be based on private leaderboard score and presentations made in Online Interview round with LTFS & Analytics Vidhya which will be held after contest close.
Setting the final submission is recommended. Without a final submission, the submission corresponding to best public score will be taken as the final submission
You can only make 5 submissions per day
Entries submitted after the contest is closed, will not be considered
The code file pertaining to your final submission is mandatory while setting final submission
Throughout the hackathon, you are expected to respect fellow hackers and act with high integrity.
Analytics Vidhya and LTFS hold the right to disqualify any participant at any stage of the competition if the participant(s) are deemed to be acting fraudulently.
Use of multiple IDs will lead to immediate disqualification